---
layout: post
title: Finding an Angle
categories: Leadership
tags: [Leadership, angle]
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---
<p style="margin: 10px 0;padding: 0;mso-line-height-rule: exactly;-ms-text-size-adjust: 100%;-webkit-text-size-adjust: 100%;color: #202020;font-family: 'Helvetica Neue', Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, sans-serif;font-size: 16px;line-height: 150%;text-align: left;"><font color="#202020" face="helvetica neue, helvetica, arial, verdana, sans-serif"><span style="font-size:16px">I am evaluating new career options and paths as we enter an uncertain economic future. A friend and I discussed&nbsp;VC and playing with different ways of how I could pitch myself and my story.&nbsp;<br>
<br>
Whenever I meet him, I learn something from him and I think highly of him. Being a VC himself, he said that it wasn't a good time right now to ask VCs for 30 minutes or a coffee, since they were all tremendously busy&nbsp;firefighting with&nbsp;their portfolio startups in light of the pandemic.<br>
<br>
He then gave me advice that I found tremendously valuable on how to "break in". He said, Christine you should leverage your current company and ask for business meetings instead of asking for informal coffee chats.<br>
<br>
Since I work in the travel, he said, that people would regard me as&nbsp;<em>a travel&nbsp;insider&nbsp;</em>and that people would listen to me, simply because I work in the industry. This way I could generate value by sharing my perspective on it and perhaps even help the VC with my knowledge.&nbsp;He also suggested&nbsp;that, once I get to have those meetings, I should softpitch myself by telling them casually that I was generally&nbsp;open to consider working in the VC industry.<br>
<br>
Amazing.<br>
<br>
Breaking it down, his approach was genius for 2 reasons:</span></font></p>

<ul>
	<li style="mso-line-height-rule: exactly;-ms-text-size-adjust: 100%;-webkit-text-size-adjust: 100%;"><strong>Approaching your potential future employer out of a position of strength rather than weakness</strong> (talking business makes you an equal, asking them for an informal coffee to pitch yourself puts you in a weaker position)</li>
	<li style="mso-line-height-rule: exactly;-ms-text-size-adjust: 100%;-webkit-text-size-adjust: 100%;"><strong>Providing free value and do due diligence&nbsp;in an inception-kind-of-way. </strong>Business is always about people, and <span style="color:#d40202"><strong>paying forward and receiving reciprocity</strong></span> is kind of the rule of the game.<br>
	By providing insights into a certain sector, not only do I provide free value and "insider information" to them, but also leave a first (positive) impression.&nbsp;We forget sometimes&nbsp;that we are&nbsp;regarded as experts in our respective fields (even if we may think differently) and under the pretext of a business meeting, we can then evaluate the culture of their company and just so gently&nbsp;drop the fact that we are open to a new job.</li>
</ul>
<span style="color:#d40202"><strong>In a nutshell, finding an angle to do (job) due diligence smarter and putting oneself in a more advantageous discussion position is something I had never considered before</strong></span>.