---
layout: post
title: The Greatest Social Experiment of Modern Times
categories: Life
tags: [life, crisis, covid, lockdown, love, focus]
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

<p style="margin: 10px 0;padding: 0;mso-line-height-rule: exactly;-ms-text-size-adjust: 100%;-webkit-text-size-adjust: 100%;color: #202020;font-family: 'Helvetica Neue', Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, sans-serif;font-size: 16px;line-height: 150%;text-align: left;"><span style="font-size:16px"><font color="#202020" face="helvetica neue, helvetica, arial, verdana, sans-serif">Life has slowed down tremendously over the last couple of weeks, and while, yes, there are ups and downs, overall I am surprised about the good things that come out of the lockdown: cleansing oneself from #fomo and&nbsp;coffee chats and business meetings&nbsp;we believe we <em>absolutely need</em>&nbsp;to do (but really don't move the needle);&nbsp;finding time to reflect, working on our health and body or even picking up a hobby or project we never had time to do.<br>
<br>
And in the middle&nbsp;of it all, there is this absolutely unbelievable and totally unexpected person coming into my life and I find myself in the biggest Social Experiment the Modern World has seen in decades. The story I am going to tell you&nbsp;couldn't be more romantic and is the stuff movies are made of<!--more-->:&nbsp;</font><br>
<br>
<font color="#202020" face="helvetica neue, helvetica, arial, verdana, sans-serif">Imagine two people that find themselves in lockdown. Under normal circumstances they would have unlikely noticed each other, because both are too busy, distracted and literally, all over the place.<br>
<br>
Now in lockdown, they are </font><span style="color:#d40202"><font face="helvetica neue, helvetica, arial, verdana, sans-serif"><strong>grounded</strong></font></span><font color="#202020" face="helvetica neue, helvetica, arial, verdana, sans-serif">. As work colleagues, they start speaking more frequently on the phone. Very quickly though, the conversation evolves from complaining about the daily frustration of Work From Home&nbsp;to sharing their favorite songs to cheer one another up, finding words of comfort when things seem grim and laughing together when good news arise. I mean </font><span style="color:#d40202"><font face="helvetica neue, helvetica, arial, verdana, sans-serif"><strong>they even build a joint&nbsp;music playlist together! Who does these things these days?</strong></font></span><br>
<br>
<font color="#202020" face="helvetica neue, helvetica, arial, verdana, sans-serif">Suddenly, they find themselves riding this emotional lockdown rollercoaster together and they cannot imagine how life would be without the support of the other person. But does this connection even mean anything? Or is it only happening&nbsp;because of the lockdown? Because both are starved for social interaction and got thrown together?<br>
<br>
The lines between work and private life smudge further. Their conversations become longer, more intimate. They talk about their friends, their experiences, their dreams and passions. They spend average&nbsp;four,&nbsp;five hours on the phone, talking into the depth of night and&nbsp;if it was not for the tiredness in their eyes, they could talk&nbsp;the <em>entire night</em>. -- When&nbsp;was the last time you talked to someone for hours until 3am? When was the last time you </font><span style="color:#d40202"><font face="helvetica neue, helvetica, arial, verdana, sans-serif"><strong>even considered, speaking to someone for so long or had the time to do so</strong></font></span><font color="#202020" face="helvetica neue, helvetica, arial, verdana, sans-serif">?&nbsp;<br>
<br>
Despite the deep connection they both feel and taking it slowly and step by step, they face&nbsp;a huge problem:&nbsp;They cannot see each other while under lockdown and the lockdown got&nbsp;extended by yet another month. What a mood dropper...and a new fear bubbles&nbsp;up: </font><span style="color:#d40202"><font face="helvetica neue, helvetica, arial, verdana, sans-serif"><strong>How long can you </strong></font><strong><font face="helvetica neue, helvetica, arial, verdana, sans-serif">keep such connection&nbsp;and&nbsp;<em>magic</em> going<font face="helvetica neue, helvetica, arial, verdana, sans-serif"> </font>on</font></strong><font face="helvetica neue, helvetica, arial, verdana, sans-serif"><strong> through video chat?</strong></font></span><font color="#202020" face="helvetica neue, helvetica, arial, verdana, sans-serif"> Covid and this lockdown make&nbsp;you&nbsp;feel like being in the <em>Hunger Games:</em>&nbsp;a <em>game maker </em>is in control of your life and you cannot go out as you please and do things you want for fear of surveillance and getting caught.<br>
<br>
Of course, they are like rebellious teenagers and they find ways&nbsp;around the lockdown. They "bump" into each other on the street, and at first, it feels almost <em>weird</em> to actually see each other in real life and being almost able to touch each other with two meters of&nbsp;social distancing. After&nbsp;so many phone calls and feeling closeness virtually,&nbsp;in this very moment,&nbsp;</font><span style="color:#d40202"><font face="helvetica neue, helvetica, arial, verdana, sans-serif"><strong>the real life almost feels <em>unnatural</em> while speaking digitally&nbsp;feels <em>natural</em>.</strong></font></span><font color="#202020" face="helvetica neue, helvetica, arial, verdana, sans-serif">&nbsp;What an ironic&nbsp;twist of sensation this&nbsp;lockdown creates. Perhaps it is also information&nbsp;overflow of their senses after weeks and weeks of self-isolation that makes it feel this way.<br>
<br>
They also dare more&nbsp;and take&nbsp;a double-decker bus together, <em>accidentally</em> sitting&nbsp;front row on the upper deck, while listening to music together and riding through Singapore</font><font color="#202020" face="helvetica neue, helvetica, arial, verdana, sans-serif">. Perhaps it is again the <em>Lockdown Effect</em>, but even these mundane activities such as a bus ride feel so <em>special</em> <em>and</em> <em>exciting</em> for them. I mean, girls, we talk about taking a mundane bus for the sake of riding it and with no particular aim.<br>
<br>
And finally, after weeks and weeks of anticipation, they finally manage to kiss&nbsp;and so this love story unfolds...<br>
<br>
What those two people created&nbsp;is <em>beautiful, special and so raw</em> these days. They get to know each other on a whole different level - no fancy clothes and dinners, no games or apps. They&nbsp;succeed to strip&nbsp;down to the very profound and essential truth, and what has always been the most important&nbsp;about two people connecting:</font><span style="color:#d40202"><font face="helvetica neue, helvetica, arial, verdana, sans-serif"><strong> a good conversation</strong></font></span><font color="#202020" face="helvetica neue, helvetica, arial, verdana, sans-serif">.&nbsp;</font><br>
<br>
<font color="#202020" face="helvetica neue, helvetica, arial, verdana, sans-serif">Perhaps, in <em>normal</em> life, we do come across good conversations with people, but&nbsp;we are also just so easily&nbsp;distracted&nbsp;in our fast-paced lives and</font><span style="color:#d40202"><font face="helvetica neue, helvetica, arial, verdana, sans-serif"><strong> are not patient and focused enough to really try to get to know someone profoundly - and perhaps this is something we should be taking away from this&nbsp;lockdown lab experiment.</strong></font></span><font color="#202020" face="helvetica neue, helvetica, arial, verdana, sans-serif">&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
<br>
We are still under lockdown in Singapore and noone knows how it will be when things ease back into normal. It is also not clear&nbsp;whether this <em>love story lab experiment</em> will stand&nbsp;a chance to&nbsp;survive in the "wild". I would really hope that it&nbsp;is indeed substantial and <em>real. </em>If it is, then I guess, I just got myself a boyfriend.<br>
<br>
But one think&nbsp;I know for sure is that this&nbsp;lockdown has been </font><span style="color:#d40202"><font face="helvetica neue, helvetica, arial, verdana, sans-serif"><strong>really good to me with sharpening my senses, getting back to what is meaningful, profound&nbsp;and <em>real</em> and to really appreciate the <em>details</em> of life</strong></font></span><font color="#202020" face="helvetica neue, helvetica, arial, verdana, sans-serif">.&nbsp;</font></span></p>