---
layout: post
title: How I go the role or about stepping up Part I
categories: Leadership
tags: [MD, interview, career, authenticity, leadership]
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

<p style="margin: 10px 0;padding: 0;mso-line-height-rule: exactly;-ms-text-size-adjust: 100%;-webkit-text-size-adjust: 100%;color: #202020;font-family: 'Helvetica Neue', Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, sans-serif;font-size: 16px;line-height: 150%;text-align: left;">I remember the moment when I was done with the world.<br>
<br>
I had just stepped out of an interview conducted via video call and I was&nbsp;annoyed: Staring at the green ball in my laptop and giving my presentation without seeing people's faces and reactions was&nbsp;incredibly unsatisfactory. Even more frustrating were the questions asked like&nbsp;"You have only been so short in the company, why do you think you are the best candidate?"<br>
<br>
I mean...if '<em>years of affiliation'</em> was the <em>key</em> success factor for the MD role then why even consider me? I will not be able to change the fact that I have only been&nbsp;with the company for 10 months.&nbsp;<br>
<br>
I think what really made me&nbsp;seriously consider&nbsp;<em>to withdraw my candidacy</em> was the strategy workshop right after the interview where my proposed ideas were shot down by my colleagues and peers.<br><!--more-->
<br>
In my head I thought: "How should I become their boss if I wasn't even able to hold my ground in such an important meeting?" I painfully realized that I may not have credibility with my peer group. I was also appalled by the way our team communicated feedback which I neither found constructive nor diplomatic. Did I really want to make those people my problem as the MD? Did I really want to get myself into such a mess?<br>
<br>
<span style="color:#d40202"><strong>It hurt a lot.</strong></span> I did not have&nbsp;doubts about what I had presented, but perhaps I&nbsp;hadn't learned enough about how to handle people and an organization. Perhaps I wasn't ready to take on such an immense task, or perhaps I simply just didn't want it enough...<br>
<br>
<span style="font-size:12px"><em>(Side note: We did end up converging to what I had proposed and it made me realized that I was in an organization where people didn't listen to each other and that&nbsp;it was just about being the loudest and most dominant in the room).</em></span><br>
<br>
It was luckily the weekend and<span style="color:#d40202"><strong> I was able to just sink into my pain and cry it out</strong></span>. I didn't feel much better after the weekend, so I&nbsp;figured&nbsp;that the role wasn't for <em>me</em>. I decided to let my current MD know&nbsp;that. However,&nbsp;I never got the chance&nbsp;as he went on vacation.<br>
<br>
At the end, I didn't withdraw. I thought that anyways the type of questions asked suggested that they really wanted someone else and for the next few weeks I didn't hear back. In my mind, I closed the chapter and moved on&nbsp;and had already begun to look for new jobs in the market.&nbsp;<br>
<br>
The call therefore came as a surprise:&nbsp;I had been shortlisted and the hiring manager was going to decide between two candidates,&nbsp;myself and another one,&nbsp;and wanted another conversation.<br>
<br>
And so I was back on&nbsp;the emotional rollercoaster―first I felt shock, then excitement, then panic and fear and then an utter struggle to figure out what to do next. Should I tell the hiring manager that I wasn't into it anymore? Or should I reconsider whether I actually do want the role?<br>
<br>
The few weeks of silence in between&nbsp;had been helpful to get a bit of distance to the role and somewhere along this process I realized a few important things:</p>

<ul>
	<li style="mso-line-height-rule: exactly;-ms-text-size-adjust: 100%;-webkit-text-size-adjust: 100%;"><span style="color:#d40202"><strong>Quitting and running away is always easier than&nbsp;turning challenges into opportunities</strong></span>―Could I see getting&nbsp;the organization in order as a personal&nbsp;challenge and the role as an opportunity&nbsp;to change and influence people towards a place I would love&nbsp;coming to work to?</li>
	<li style="mso-line-height-rule: exactly;-ms-text-size-adjust: 100%;-webkit-text-size-adjust: 100%;"><span style="color:#d40202"><strong>Shuffling power and&nbsp;regaining confidence by being oneself</strong></span>―I realized that&nbsp;the tiring thing about the whole interview process was the fact that<em> I tried to fit in and that it made me incredibly frustrated</em>. I realized that I was at a life stage where I didn't constantly feel like I needed to proof myself, that I had a great CV and that getting the role would just be <em>another line item</em>&nbsp;on it.<br>
	<br>
	Hence, my mind shifted towards a "take it or leave it" attitude. I knew what I was capable of doing, what unique experiences I brought to the table and if this was something of value to them, then great, and if not, then it was&nbsp;also fine and we were just simply not a good match. I told myself: No more bending for other people.&nbsp;</li>
</ul>

<p style="margin: 10px 0;padding: 0;mso-line-height-rule: exactly;-ms-text-size-adjust: 100%;-webkit-text-size-adjust: 100%;color: #202020;font-family: 'Helvetica Neue', Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, sans-serif;font-size: 16px;line-height: 150%;text-align: left;">So I went into this conversation <span style="color:#d40202"><strong>bold</strong></span>, knowing that I was prepared and okay to also walk away from this, and told the hiring manager what I regarded as simply the facts: "Here are three things for you to consider:&nbsp;I don't have the year-long experience in the company like other candidates, but I am like a <em>wildcard</em>. I bring experience from the market and I have proven that I am flexible and sensible enough to pretty much strive in&nbsp;anything that gets thrown at me. At the end, I believe that it is up to you to decide what you believe&nbsp;are critical skills you need&nbsp;in your organization and that if it doesn't work out between&nbsp;us then that is totally fine, too..."<br>
<br>
I think this&nbsp;was the shortest interview I had in my career. After 20 minutes it was over and I received the call the following day that I got the role. I couldn't believe it and it came as a big victory.<br>
<br>
Of course, between <em>getting</em> the role and <em>accepting</em> the role were still hurdles that I will talk about in the next write-ups, but here are some of the things I took away from this particular experience:<br>
<br>
<strong style="color: #D40202;">Growing into responsibility.</strong> I was certainly not ready for the role when I started the interview process. It took an immense amount of <span style="color:#d40202"><strong>self-discipline, reflection and honesty</strong></span>&nbsp;to sit down with myself and figure out who I was&nbsp;and what I believed in and being confident enough to communicate it.<br>
<br>
<strong><span style="color:#d40202">Setting the tone</span></strong>. Too often are we&nbsp;followers and takers. We adapt rather than direct. Sometimes it is <em>key</em> to be the one <span style="color:#d40202"><strong>setting the tone and the rules of the playing field</strong></span> (aka stating your position, beliefs and boundaries in high-stake&nbsp;discussions, interviews or pitches).<br>
<br>
Humans have a tendency to adapt. If you state your position&nbsp;early on, others will adapt to your needs rather than the other way around. Sometimes stating the obvious is also powerful―it puts the other person into a position of explanation which I saw in this conversation.<br>
<br>
<strong><span style="color:#d40202">When I reflect back on it now, I think growing <em>beyond the role</em> and getting into a mindset of "I care about this role, but life is also good without it" really helped me to step up and to gain the distance I needed&nbsp;to show up authentically and centered</span></strong>.&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>